The last video we were able to receive an image finally inside of our form that got uploaded to our
server so we're now playing around with that image.
And the next thing we need to start to think about is where we're going to store the image and eventually
make it available to other users inside of application so we can actually associate an image with the
product and so on.
So in this video we're going to discuss a couple of different ways of handling image storage right now
at the very start.
Let me tell you right away that we're going to talk about these different methods.
We're going to end up using a method for storing our images that is kind of a shortcut.
It is essentially not like the right way really to handle image upload.
I know that might sound really disappointing to hear the reason for it is that doing image upload the
right way is really really challenging.
In general it requires a lot of extra code.
It requires some extra setup and it also usually involves paying some amount of money for image hosting
as well or outside data storage more or less this of course as we said many times is all about JavaScript
that's we're studying here inside this course.
And that's why we're going to use this kind of shortcut for storing our images.
Nonetheless it pains me honestly it pains me to show you what is not the right way of image storage.
I don't want to do this but in the context of the course it is the right thing to do.
Nonetheless I really want you to understand the different options out there.
So in this video we're gonna have an optional video optional lecture right here.
We're going to outline some different ways of handling image upload.
This is entirely an optional video.
So if you don't want to watching this.
No problem.
Positive video.
Move on to the next one.
Everything around this image upload stuff is all going to be inside this video.
We're not going to write any code so you can 100 percent skip this video OK.
So it would then mind.
Let's get to it.
We're going to take a look at four different ways of handling image upload.
We're going to go through them in order of worst to best.
So first off I want to do a quick side topic here just to help you understand how servers or web applications
in general frequently get architected once they start to gain a lot of users.
This right here is a diagram of our current setup very simple very straightforward in nature.
We have an express server our browser makes requests that server and we get back some response and we
see some content appear on the screen simply enough.
The downside to this approach however is that it's not going to scale to handle many many many users
at some point in the future.
So we can imagine that if we eventually have like 500000 different users who are trying to get access
to our e-commerce application the number of requests that those five hundred thousand users are going
to be generating and sending to our server is going to very quickly overwhelm our server and our one
instance of our server like the one program that we're currently running inside of our terminal is not
going to be able to handle that level of traffic so a very common way to handle scaling up an application
like ours is to do something like this right here so in this scenario rather than having our browser
communicate directly with the server the browser is going to instead communicate directly with something
called a load balancer.
This is a server inside of itself but it is not running any actual business logic.
It's not generating any h t mail or anything like that.
Instead the only job the load balancer is to receive incoming requests from say a browser and then randomly
take that request and forward it on to one of a number of different servers.
Each of these servers over here will be running the exact same application.
So same code base they'll do the exact same thing.
We're just running different copies.
The benefit to this approach is that we can handle far greater numbers of users.
So if we have five hundred thousand users coming out our application they're all going to hit the load
balancer the load balancers then going to randomly assigned that request to one these servers that server
is going to respond through the load balancer and some send some response back to the browser.
So again this is a very common pattern.
We see all the time inside of Web applications.
It's not something you need to worry about right now.
The only reason I'm introducing this is to help you understand why somebody approaches for dealing with
image upload are not really good at all.
That's the only reason I'm showing you this right now OK.
So with that we have this preamble out of the way we're gonna start to talk about four different methods
of image upload and these are really all talking about where we store our image.
So we're going to go in order of worst to in theory best the reason we're gonna start with this really
bad option right here and the reason I'm going to tell you about this bad option at all is that if you
start to look up image upload online you're going to find a lot of blogs and a lot of guides and whatnot
that tell you to use this method right here even other courses to be honest anytime someone tells you
to use this verse approach that we're going to discuss.
If they tell you to do that turn right back to them and say you're crazy.
This is never going to work and I'm going to tell you why that is.
So let's get to it.
We're gonna talk about the first bad way of handling image upload and of course we can discuss why it
is bad as well OK.
So this is our bad approach.
So we've got our browser.
We've got this kind of multi server approach.
So in this first approach the way in which we store the image that gets sent from the browser we're
going to have the browser make a request to the load balancer the load balancer is then going to pick
one of these servers at random to handle that request.
So maybe in this case we'll be the top server up here.
Some I'm going to delete the connection lines to the other two we're just gonna consider this request
being forwarded on to that server so the image is going to be forwarded on it eventually goes to the
server up here and the server receives that image.
So one very simple and very straightforward way to handle image upload and eventually make this image
available to other people are trying to view the products we have created is to take that image and
just store it on a hard drive.
So like the hard drive attached to the server over here to put that image right there until someone
comes along and says hey I want to get at that image at which point time we read it off the hard drive
and send it back to whoever asks for the image.
So why is this about approach.
Well it's really simple and really straightforward.
If we had an architecture that looks like this right here this approach would work out just fine.
No issue whatsoever.
So we upload the image it's on our hard drive.
If anyone ever wants it they just go directly to our server and ask for it.
But as soon as we start to scale our application and introduce this idea of a load balancer and multiple
other servers this entire approach entirely falls flat.
No reason is extremely straightforward.
As I mentioned just a moment ago this load balancer is going to receive requests and randomly as a keyword
here randomly assigned the request to one of these different servers.
So let's imagine that the browser uploads the image right there and then later on like two minutes later
the browser turns back around and says hey by the way can I get that image.
So the browser would make a request the load balancer and maybe this time the load balancer would route
the request to this server.
So then this server would look on its hard drive for the image.
And lo and behold it's not there.
The image has been stored on a totally different harddrive a totally different storage medium up here.
So this server would have no access whatsoever to the image stored over on that harddrive so the key
idea here is that we are taking image storing it on a hard drive and in this scenario we imagine the
hard drive is paired on a one to one basis with an instance of a server.
This is the easiest and most straightforward way to handle image upload.
Without a doubt but it has a extremely obvious downside.
As soon as you start to introduce multiple different servers this entire idea falls apart entirely.
So you might see like I said some guides out there some blog posts that recommend that you take an image
and just save it to an harddrive and then just hey serve it off the harddrive but obviously it doesn't
work in the long term if you ever expect to scale or grow your application if you expect your application
to always be one single server then sure this approach works fine.
But I think that a lot of people out there myself included always kind of look a little bit at least
a little to the future and think about hey what happens like next week when I start to get a lot of
users and I need to scale things up OK.
So that's method number one where we have some co-located hard disk that we used to store the image
and serve it from.
So that is not a great solution It technically works.
But like I said it is not a long term solution Gates or the next slow and take a look at is storing
the image directly in the database.
This is another kind of obvious thing that you might decide to do.
And if you go and look at other blog posts online around image upload they're going to tell you to do
this.
So you might have some dedicated database a database like my sequel host grass Mongo DV and so on.
If you don't know those terms that's totally fine.
And we might decide to take the image and just store it directly inside the database.
So essentially something like this we're gonna take the image throw it through to one of the servers
randomly and then the server is going to say oh great an image.
Is going to store this inside my database along with the rest of my definition of a product.
Remember at the other day we are storing products here so we might create a product inside the database
and attach this image to it.
The benefit to this approach is that usually in just about every web application that doesn't have a
more exotic architecture all these different servers are always going to be connecting to the same database
so they all share the same data.
The benefit to this approach is we're going to put our image in one location where all these different
servers can easily access it.
But in this case I would say that this is not a great approach.
It technically works and it technically will handle like this multi server approach right here.
But there is a very big downside and the downside.
One of the biggest aspects of it is the cost of doing this.
Traditionally having a database and storing information inside of a database is relatively expensive
compared to just raw hard drive space rock hard drive space is generally really really cheap.
But getting database space is much more expensive.
Let's do a quick calculation just to prove this.
So I've got some pricing right here from NWS for getting some database storage space.
So this is saying right here that getting one gigabyte of space for a database costs what ten or eleven
point five cents per month per gigabyte it's in other words for every month that you get a database
through NWS for every gigabyte of information that you store you're going to pay eleven and a half cents.
Let's do some quick math here and think about what a application might end up costing if we decide to
store Oliver images inside of a database that we pay this rate for just to get some quick interesting
numbers here.
We're going to assume that every single image that gets uploaded to our application is 200 kill bytes
which is point 0 0 2 gigabytes and then we're going to assume that maybe we have the same level of traffic
as a very popular image sharing Web site called imgur which gets one point five million images uploaded
per day.
Now obviously this is for an image sharing Web site not an e-commerce one like we're building right
now.
Nonetheless I figured hey let's just do some numbers here.
The other thing to mention is that this is a very old number many years old at this point.
So it was one point five million images by this image sharing Web site back in 2015 but all these numbers
let us do some quick math.
So we're gonna say OK we've got point 0 0 0 2 gigabytes per image.
Times one point five million images per month or is that per day update.
OK.
My bad.
Per day then that's going to be at eleven and a half cents and I will multiply it by 30 thirty to get
a month.
So that's 1000 dollars each additional month.
So every month you're going to pay a thousand dollars more than the previous month for it.
The images that you're uploading because remember this image storage is like kill it if month one you're
going to get one point five million the next month.
You are now storing 3 million and so on so for just one month's worth of images to store one month for
a full year.
We're talking about around 12000 U.S. dollars to store images inside of a database.
Now how does this compare to another option if we did not store images inside of a database.
Well we can take a look at another feature inside of eight of us for storing data which is called Amazon
S3 when we use Amazon S3.
Our pricing is a much much lower two and a two point three cents per gigabyte.
So we can do that same kind of calculation but instead of 11 1/2 cents I'm going to go down to zero
to three and now for the same thing we're spending like a quarter as much money less than a quarter
really.
You can tell that immediately just like some off the cuff calculation here storing images inside of
a database can be extremely expensive even though it technically does work.
That's option number two option number three is to use an outside data store like Amazon S3 and we're
going to stream incoming images from our server to that outside data store.
So in this approach you get something like this.
So we still have a load balancer we've got our servers we've still got a database but now we've got
some outside data store which we can kind of think of as like a centralized singular hard drive more
or less many different cloud providers offer services like this.
So an example would be Amazon S3 which we just looked at the pricing for digital ocean spaces Google
cloud storage there's like Asaad disk or something like that as well.
So this is essentially just four files particularly images are a great use case for this.
It's really cheap to store images on this kind of data store.
And so it makes it a pretty good place to handle image upload so in this scenario we would still have
a user make a request to upload an image that would flow through a load balancer be assigned to a server.
Now here's the key thing the server would take this image and then bit by bit as it is being uploaded
to the server the server would in turn forward bit by bit.
Up to this outside data store and so we would store all of our images on this outside data store.
And so in theory at some point time we would have thousands hundreds of thousands even millions of images
on this outside state data store which is entirely what they're designed to do so in this approach we
once again have some centralized source of all of our images.
So all these different servers can easily say to the browser Oh hey yeah go get this image from this
outside data store.
In addition there's outside data store is really cheap to use.
So it's great on our expenses as well.
The downside to this approach however is that we're still involving the server in this process.
So in other words we would have to have a number of servers inside of application to handle all of the
increased load of throwing this image through the load balancer to our server and then have our server
process that image and then part by part upload it to that outside server.
So this is a good approach.
I would even maybe just say like OK it is OK it's good whatever you want to say because it still involves
our application and we still have to provision additional servers or capacity to handle all this image
upload traffic right typical application maybe that's OK because maybe we don't expect to get many images
but depending upon the type of application you're building well maybe at some point time this would
have a lot of extra load being put on your servers OK.
Now onto the last method pre signed you or else.
So this is like the right way of doing things.
This is by far the most complicated I think.
However.
So there is a downside to it.
And like I said that's why we are not doing this way inside of our application is it would go just so
far beyond the topic of JavaScript and just about everything around this doesn't really involve a lot
of javascript code at all.
Instead it's a lot of dev ops kind of stuff where we have to sign up for an IWC account do a lot of
configuration pay some money all that kind of good stuff or bad stuff depending upon how you look at
it.
So that's why we're not doing it inside this course.
Nonetheless let's figure out how it actually works.
OK so in this approach we have basically the same thing as what we just discussed where we've got this
outside data stored for all of our files but in this scenario what's going to happen our browser is
going to make an initial request to our server and in this initial request the server is going to say
hey server I want to upload a file to you in the server.
In response is going to say OK that's great.
I'm happy that you want to upload a file but don't send it to me.
I'll tell you what.
Instead the server is going to send back to the browser something called a priest signed U.R.L..
So that's going to come from the server back over to the browser a priest signed your URL is a your
URL that has some configuration stuffed into it.
So like a token or two you know a special string of characters.
The priest on your l is going to allow the browser to take this image and directly upload it to this
outside data store so from the browser directly over to this outside data store.
Normally our data stores like Amazon S3 or whatever else we're using are 100 percent locked down and
we never allow any outside person to stick any files into our data store because otherwise we could
possibly be paying for posting someone else's files inside of our project.
Obviously not a good thing but in order to allow one person to once just like one time upload one single
file we can generate this priest on your l thing which essentially gives very temporary access to the
browser to upload a file to the data store one time for this very specific file so in this scenario
we are not involving our server at all except for the generation of that priest on your l.
The image is gonna go directly from the browser to the outside data store and unlike the last solution
that we just took a look at our server is not going to have to do any additional processing to take
that image stream it and essentially copy it back over to the data store here.
So our servers end up doing significantly less work.
Overall though this is definitely without doubt the best approach it is in theory like the right and
I'm doing quotes in real life right now like it is quote unquote the right way of doing things.
There are some scenarios where this is overkill.
There are some scenarios where using of those other methods might be better but in general as an all
purpose solution this is like a really good solid secure cost effective way of handling image upload.
Like I said it is something that costs money as we usually end up having to sign up for one these services
and pay for storage.
It requires a lot of extra configuration and a little bit of extra code on our servers as well which
is the only reason.
Like I said that we're not doing it inside this course okay.
So with all that in mind I hope you enjoy this quick overview on all these different methods.
It's the last kind of takeaway I want you to have here anytime someone tells you to do image upload
and to store it directly onto the hard disk and then read files out of there.
Generally bad idea unless you've got a very particular use case where you know hundred percent that
your image or your application is only ever going to have one server running storing stuff in a database
definitely works but usually it costs a little bit more money streaming through the data store.
Good solution.
It is solid but it does require your servers to have some additional proof to them because they're going
to do a little tiny bit of extra processing to receive these image uploads and then forward the file
on to some outside data store priest on your l essentially having the browser upload directly to that
outside data store.
Definitely very good solution.
Secure cost effective but requires a little bit more work upfront okay.
So that's that quick overview on image upload.
Like I said I felt really bad about it in this course in general tell me you like the not right way
to do things which is why I want to give you this overview and I know it's kind of long possibly confusing
but that's what we got.
Okay.
So I hope you enjoyed this overview overall.
Let's take a pause right here.
We're gonna come back the next video and we're going to implement a solution for storing images in our
application.